{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue233;\red0\green0\blue233;
\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;
\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww8620\viewh15120\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 primera imagen digital 1957\
angel source\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 primara animaci\'f3n digital 
\f1\i \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1960
\f0\i0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f1\i \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Rendering of a planned highway
\f0\i0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 In 1960, a 49-second vector animation of a car traveling down a planned highway at 110\'a0km/h was created at the Swedish {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Royal_Institute_of_Technology"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Royal Institute of Technology}} on the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BESK"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 BESK}} computer. The short animation was broadcast on November 9, 1961 on national television.\
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timeline_of_computer_animation_in_film_and_television\

\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 primera pel\'edcula generada por computadora 1967
\f2 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Hummingbird (1967) was the first computer-generated animated film - it was made using 30,000 images and 25 motion sequences generated by a computer.\

\f0 https://www.b2w.tv/blog/the-evolution-of-animation-a-brief-journey-through-time\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
fundaci\'f3n de las t\'e9cnicas de simulaci\'f3n f\'edsicas 1968\
kitty 1968\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 A group of Soviet mathematicians and physicists headed by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nikolay_Konstantinov"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 N. Konstantinov}} created a mathematically computable model of the physics of a moving cat. The algorithms were programmed on the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BESM"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 BESM}}-4 computer. The computer then printed hundreds of frames to be later converted to film.
\fs20 \cf3 \super \ul \ulc3 \strokec3  
\fs24 \cf2 \nosupersub \ulnone \strokec2 An accompanying scientific paper describes the foundation of the employed physics simulation techniques that nowadays are commonly applied to animation films and computer games.\
\
Primer uso de la animaci\'f3n digital 2d en el entretenimiento masivo\
Westworld 1973\
First use of 2D computer animation in a significant entertainment {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feature_film"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 feature film}}. The point of view of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yul_Brynner"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Yul Brynner}}'s gunslinger was achieved with {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raster_graphics"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 raster graphics}}.
\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Primer uso de gr\'e1ficos animados en 3d\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Futureworld"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\i \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Futureworld}}
\f1\i \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3  1976
\f0\i0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \ulnone \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 First use of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/3D_computer_graphics"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 3D computer graphics}} for animated hand and face. Used 2D digital compositing to materialize characters over a background
\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Primer personage humano generado por computadora\
Looker 1981\
F
\f2 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 irst CGI human character, Cindy. Also, first use of 3D-shaded CGI\
\
primer film generado en 3d\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dream_Flight"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\i \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Dream Flight}}
\f1\i \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3  1983
\f2\i0 \cf2 \ulnone \strokec2 \
First 3D generated film telling a story, shown in Electronic Theater in SIGGRAPH \'9183 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 First realistic {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer-generated_imagery"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 CGI}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Animal"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 animal}}.\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Labyrinth_(1986_film)"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\i \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Labyrinth}}
\f1\i \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3  1986
\f2\i0 \cf2 \ulnone \strokec2 \
First realistic {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer-generated_imagery"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 CGI}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Animal"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 animal}}.\
\
Primer fil generado por computadora \
tin toy1988\
First computer-animated short film to win an Oscar. Added to the United States National Film Registry in 2003. 
\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\f3\b\fs36 fill time gap\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Lawnmower_Man_(film)"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\i\b0\fs24 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 The Lawnmower Man}}
\f1\i\b0\fs24 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3  1992
\f3\i0\b\fs36 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \ulnone \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 First feature film to use computer animation to explore the subject of virtual reality. First virtual reality sex.\
\
Babylon 5\
First {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Television_program"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 television series}} to use CGI as the primary method for its visual effects. First TV use of virtual sets. \
\
The Crow 1994\
First deceased actor ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brandon_Lee"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Brandon Lee}}) to be re-created through CGI. \

\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Toy Story 1995
\f2 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 First CGI feature-length animation. Added to the United States National Film Registry in 2005. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marvin_the_Martian_in_3D"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\i \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Marvin the Martian in 3D}}
\f1\i \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3  1997
\f2\i0 \cf2 \ulnone \strokec2 \
First CG film created for viewing with 3D glasses. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Lord_of_the_Rings:_The_Fellowship_of_the_Ring"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\i \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring}}
\f1\i \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3  2001
\f2\i0 \cf2 \ulnone \strokec2 \
First use of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_Intelligence"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 AI}} for digital actors (using the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Massive_(software)"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Massive}} software developed by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weta_Digital"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Weta Digital}}). \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sky_Captain_and_the_World_of_Tomorrow"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\i \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow}}
\f1\i \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3  2004
\f2\i0 \cf2 \ulnone \strokec2 \
First movie with all-CGI backgrounds and live actors.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avatar_(2009_film)"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\i \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Avatar}}
\f1\i \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3  2009
\f0\i0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \ulnone \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 First full-length movie made using performance capture to create photorealistic 3D characters and to feature a fully CG 3D photorealistic world. The first virtual art department and complete virtual production pipeline was developed by director James Cameron and team to create the film in real-time. \
\
Up 2009\
First computer-animated feature to be nominated for {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Academy_Award_for_Best_Picture"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Academy Award for Best Picture}}. 
\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 primera figura tridimensional\
\
primer personaje creado por computadora\
\
primera animaci\'f3n digital en un largometraje\
\
Primeras animaciones 3d\
\
\
primera animaci\'f3n cgi\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f1\i \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Toy Story
\f2\i0  in 1995 https://www.b2w.tv/blog/the-evolution-of-animation-a-brief-journey-through-time\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
La historia de la tecnolog\'eda de animaci\'f3n que muestra im\'e1genes y piezas de arte en movimiento cambi\'f3 a lo largo de los a\'f1os: ahora estamos en un mundo en el que la tecnolog\'eda inform\'e1tica y de Internet ayuda a crear algunos excelentes videos animados que disfrutan todo tipo de personas. Volvamos ahora en el tiempo, revivamos la evoluci\'f3n de la animaci\'f3n y tambi\'e9n exploremos lo que est\'e1 por venir.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri522\sb100\sa100\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 Although the first few computer animated films were very basic, to say the least, it nevertheless changed the way animation was done. \
Hummingbird (1967) 
\f4\b was the first computer-generated animated film
\f2\b0  - it was made using 30,000 images and 25 motion sequences generated by a computer. \
The frame by frame animation of 2D characters could now be done entirely on computers. Not only did it make the process less arduous, it gave graphic artists more control and they were able to produce content without the use of actors, expensive set pieces or props. One of the first 2D animated films in the history of 2D animation was {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZojjJvyuBmQ&index=2&list=PL97ZpBOGSiGoNWCfiCEZPRf4tKiApjhsS"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 Sword in The Stone}}, produced by Disney. Other popular Disney films of the era included the Jungle Book, Mary Poppins, and the Aristocrats.\
\
}